っ、誰！？=Who's there!?
無断で人んちに入ってくるなんて、いい度胸ね。まさかとは思うけど、あなたたち同業者？=That's some guts you got there partner, waltzing into to someone's house without their permission like that. But say, perhaps you people are colleagues of some sort?
この島に上陸できた腕は素直に褒めてあげる=I'll have to admit, you've got some pretty sick skills to have been abled to land on this island.
でも残念ね、宝探しを生業にしてるなら聞いたことあるんじゃない？=But that's too bad, as surely you must have heard my name if you're in the business of treasure hunting, oui?
狡猾で魅力的な『財宝狩りのシャン』！　この島はその縄張りよ！！=The sly and charming "Treasure Hunter Shan"! And this island is my turf!!
…………=…………
えっ、知らない？　くぅぅ、地道に頑張ってるのに……=Eh, you don't know who I am ? Hnnng, what was all that hard work for...
ま、まぁ、別に構わないわ。知らないのなら、今から言うことをよく聞きくことね！=W-well, no problem. If you really don't know, then you would do well to listen!
この島は『財宝狩りのシャン』こと私の縄張りよ！　痛い目を見たくなければ即刻立ち去りなさい！=This island is property of "Shan the Treasure Hunter" aka me! Leave now if you don't want to have a beating by yours truly!
は？　『どうぎょうしゃ』ってのでも無いし、宝探しってのも目的じゃない？=Hah ? You're not a "co-le-a-gue" and you didn't come here to look for epic loot?
い、いやいや、変な海流のせいで上陸は命懸けだし、ここは大昔の廃墟だらけで不気味だし……=O-oh you jest, there's this weird current around here that makes landing a matter of life-and-death, and then there's all these creepy ruins from way long ago......
ただのバカンス目的でこの島に来るわけないでしょ=There's no way you would come to this island just for a vacation.
……ふ～ん、そこの浜辺で倒れてるところを彼女に起こされたはいいけど=...I see, so you're telling me what you were lying unconscious on that beach over yonder when your girl-friend over woke you up; which is fine and all.
二人ともここに来るまでの記憶は一切なくて困っていた、と……=But you're also telling me that you're both suffering from a mild case of amnesia...
浜辺に怪しい船はなかったし、不運にも事故に巻き込まれて流されてきた、ってのが妥当かな= Well there wasn't any suspicious looking ships around the beach, so you guys were probably caught in some unfortunate accidents and then washed up here.
それなら、あなたたちの記憶がないのも納得できるしね=If that's the case, I can understand why you don't have any memories.
さて、どうしたものか。この二人が島に流れ着く前は同業者だった可能性を考えると……=Hmmm well, now what will I ever do with these two. Considering the fact that they may be lying and are in fact treasure hunters in disguise......
今のうちに海へ流しとく？　でも、それにしてはどんくさすぎるかな……=Maybe make them swim with the fishies now while I can ? But then again, they do seem too klutzy to be actual treasure hunters...
この島のことも知らないみたいしだし、外のこともあまり分かってなさそうなのも気になる……=They don't seem to know much about this island, and looks like they haven't got a clue about what's going on outside too.
こんなご時世に海まで出てくる世間知らずとなると……はっ！　元はどこか異国のお金持ちだったりして=The only kind of people that would be ignorant enough to go anywhere near the sea in this day and age would be...Hah! Must be one of them rich pompous kids from some exotic country.
だとしたら、バカンスの途中で事故に合った可能性もありえなくはないっ=Yeah I can see that, rich folks with no idea of what they're doing getting into an accident while out vacationing.
そうとなれば、騙してどこかに売り飛ばす？　それとも後で謝礼金をたんまり要求しちゃう？=Then, maybe I could sell them to some black market dealers somewhere ? Or ask for some hefty compensations from their parents later?
ん～、どっちが儲かるか……ま、どうするかは後で考えるとして……=Hmmm, not sure which will net me more moolah... Whatever, I can bother with all that stuff later but first...
今は助けた恩を売って、しれっとコキ使っちゃおうかな～=For now, I think I'll milk them dry to the bone on the basis of me saving their sorry arses just now.
あ～、んんっ、んぅ……いやぁ、今の話を聞いて涙がちょちょぎれそうだったよ、大変だったねぇ=Ah~, *cough*, *cough*, ……ma~n, your storu literally brought me to the brink of tears, must have been rough eh.
でも、もう安心していいからね！　記憶が戻るまで、ここでゆっくりしていってくれたまえ！=But, you can rest assured! You can chill out here until your memories return.
今はこの島に外から上陸するのは難しいが、そのうち潮の流れが落ち着くときがくる=It's difficult to land on this island from the outside at the moment, but the currents should eventually settle down.
その時にでも救助を呼ぶとしよう！　ハッハッハッ= Won't be too late to call for help then! Hahaha.
……こほん、では改めて。私は伝説の凄腕トレジャーハンター『シャン』よ。よろしく！=……cough, so again from the top. I am the legendary and resourceful treasure hunter "Shan". Nice to meet you!
とりあえず、私が使ってない間ならこの拠点は好きにしていいわ。でも、そのぉ……=For the time being, you can do as you like with this base while I'm not using it. But, you seeee……
助けると言った手前言いにくいんだけど、この無人島で三人で生きていくにはいろいろと大変なの=It's kinda hard to say this right after I said I'd help you, but three people living in an inhabited island is all kinds of tough.
例えば食料問題。一人分ならまだしも、三人分も集めるとなると、それだけで重労働だからね=For example, there's the issue of food and water. If it's just for one person then yeah not so hard, but turn it up to three and you can probably imagine how rough it's going to be.
部屋の機材は使ってもらって構わないから、食料や水の調達は手伝ってほしいわ=I don't mind you using the equipment in the room, but in exchange, I would like some help with getting clean food and water.
拠点を貸してあげるんだし、それくらいはいいでしょ？　よし、いいねっ=I'm lending you this base anyways, so that's the least you could do, right? All right, good.
あと、今は記憶がないとはいえ元は知り合いだろうから、その子はあなたがちゃんと見てあげること=Also, even though you don't have any memories right now it seems you guys knew each other from before, so make sure look after her properly.
……本当にそうかわかんないけど、面倒だし押し付けちゃえ=……Not sure if that's really true, but it's bothersome so let's just throw it to the dude and forget it.
ううん、何でもない、何でもない！=No, nothing, nothing!
それで……食料と水の調達以外に、もう一つ手伝ってほしいことがあるの=So……besides the supply of food and water, there's one more thing that I want help with.
察しはついてるかもしれないけど、私の仕事のことよ。んぅ、どう説明したもんか……=You may have guessed, but it's about my job. Hmm, how do I explain it……
価値のあるお宝なんて素人には分からないだろうし……=An amateur probably wouldn't understand what's valuable and what's not……
かなり大雑把に言うと、島にあるモノを集めて私の所にもってきてほしいの=Roughly speaking, I want you to gather things in the island and bring them back to me.
流れ着いたガラクタとか、島に自生してる食べ物とか、物珍しいモノとか……まあ、とにかく何でも=Things like washed away junk, food native to the island, curious things……well, just anything.
もちろん、タダでとは言わない！=Of course, I won't say it's for free!
こんな無人島にお金なんてないから物々交換になっちゃうけど、ちゃんと見返りは用意するつもりよ=We'll end up trading things because there isn't something like money on this inhabited island, but I intend to prepare a proper compensation.
中にはあなたの役に立つモノもあるだろうし、暇な時でいいから手伝ってほしいわ=I think some of them will even be useful to you, so I want you to help me when you're free.
いいでしょ？　悪い話でもないし……それに、私は拠点を貸してあげる恩人だよ？　だから……ね？=Good, don't you think?　It's not that bad……besides, I'm the benefactor lending you my base? So…… pretty please?
……コクッ=……Nod
よしっ、頷いた！　頷いたからには、よろしく頼んだよっ！=Alright, you nodded! Because you nodded, I'm counting on you-!
さてと、島の生活についての話はこれくらいかな=Well, this is it for the talk about the island life.
こんな島で会ったのも何かの縁だし、仲良く生活していきましょ=It's some kind of fate to meet in an island like this, so let's get along well.